Skip Mode (#755)
cylc/cylc-doc: src/user-guide/task-implementation/task-run-modes.rst

Reviewer: Might be better to rename this to `skip-mode.rst`?

.. _task-run-modes:

Task Run Modes
==============

.. versionadded:: 8.4.0

   * Before 8.4.0 run modes could only be set for the workflow, not
     for individual tasks.
   * Skip mode.

As well as the default task implementation ("live" mode)

> other implementations can be selected:

Reviewer: I think it would be more helpful if this whole page was framed as about skip mode. For the user, I don't think it's useful to talk about "multiple" task run modes; what is important to them is they can set tasks to run in skip mode.

.. _task-run-modes.skip:

Skip Mode
=========

.. versionadded:: 8.4.0

Skip mode is designed as an aid to workflow control:

* It allows creation of :term:`dummy tasks<dummy task>` as part of workflow
  design.
* It allows skipping of tasks in a running workflow using either:
  * ``cylc broadcast -s 'run mode = skip'`` (for when it is ready to run)
  * ``cylc set --out skip`` (to immediately skip)

.. note::

>    Setting :cylc:conf:`[runtime][<namespace>]run mode` in your ``flow.cylc``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Setting :cylc:conf:`[runtime][<namespace>]run mode=skip` in your ``flow.cylc``
```

   will lead to ``cylc validate`` returning a warning::

      WARNING - The following tasks are set to run in skip mode:
        * example_task

   This is designed to prevent users running a task in skip mode by mistake.
   If you are using skip mode deliberately then this can be
   ignored.

Task Outputs
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Skip mode allows the user to specify which task outputs
will be emitted using :cylc:conf:`[runtime][<namespace>][skip]outputs`.

By default:

* All required outputs will be generated.
* ``succeeded`` will be generated even if success is :term:`optional <optional output>`.
* If ``[skip]outputs`` is specified and does not include either ``succeeded``
  or ``failed``, then ``succeeded`` will still be generated.

The outputs submitted and started are always generated and do not
need to be defined in outputs.

Task Event Handlers
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

By default task event handlers are disabled by skip mode, but they
can be enabled using
:cylc:conf:`[runtime][<namespace>][skip]disable task event handlers`.

Skip Mode Examples

> ------------------

Reviewer: This isn't the right heading level

Author: Is it not? Or is our theme not displaying headings right?

https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/restructuredtext/basics.html#sections

Happy to bump it up a level.

Author: ```suggestion
Skip Mode Examples
==================
```

.. _task-run-modes.skip:

Skip Mode
=========

.. versionadded:: 8.4.0

   * Before 8.4.0 run modes could only be set for the workflow, not
     for individual tasks.
   * Skip mode.

Skip mode is designed as an aid to workflow control:

> * Allows creation of :term:`dummy tasks<dummy task>` as part of workflow
>   design.
> * Allows skipping of tasks in a running workflow using
>   ``cylc broadcast -s 'run mode = skip'``.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* It allows creation of :term:`dummy tasks<dummy task>` as part of workflow
  design.
* It allows skipping of tasks in a running workflow using
  ``cylc broadcast -s 'run mode = skip'``.
```

>    * Before 8.4.0 run modes could only be set for the workflow, not
>      for individual tasks.
>    * Skip mode.
> 
> Skip mode is designed as an aid to workflow control:
> 
> * It allows creation of :term:`dummy tasks<dummy task>` as part of workflow
>   design.
> * It allows skipping of tasks in a running workflow using
>   ``cylc broadcast -s 'run mode = skip'``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Skip mode is designed as an aid to workflow control:

* It allows creation of :term:`dummy tasks<dummy task>` as part of workflow
  design.
* It allows skipping of tasks in a running workflow using either:
  * ``cylc broadcast -s 'run mode = skip'``
  * ``cylc set --out skip``
```

.. note::

   Setting :cylc:conf:`[runtime][<namespace>]run mode` in your ``flow.cylc``
   will lead to ``cylc validate`` returning a warning::

      WARNING - The following tasks are set to run in skip mode:
        * example_task

   This is designed to prevent users running a task in skip mode by mistake.

>    If you are using skip mode as part of a workflow design then this can be
>    ignored.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   If you are using skip mode deliberately then this can be
   ignored.
```
(minor, but more concise)

Task Outputs
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Skip mode allows the user to specify which task outputs
will be emitted using :cylc:conf:`[runtime][<namespace>][skip]outputs`.

By default:

* All required outputs will be generated.
* Succeeded will be generated if success is optional.
* If outputs is specified and does not include either succeeded

>   or failed then succeeded will be produced.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  or failed then succeeded will be generated.
```
(consistency)

> The outputs submitted and started are always produced and do not

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The outputs submitted and started are always generated and do not
```

need to be defined in outputs.

Task Event Handlers
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

By default task event handlers are disabled by skip mode, but they
can be enabled using
:cylc:conf:`[runtime][<namespace>][skip]disable task event handlers`.

.. note::

>    Skip mode only works on "live workflows". Workflows run in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Skip mode only works on live workflows. Workflows run in
```
(quotes not needed there?)

   :ref:`workflow-run-modes.simulation`
   and :ref:`workflow-run-modes.dummy` ignore the

>    :cylc:conf:`[runtime][<namespace>]run mode` setting.

Reviewer: This note feels out of place under this "task event handlers" subsection?

> .. note::
> 
>    Skip mode only works on live workflows. Workflows run in
>    :ref:`workflow-run-modes.simulation`
>    and :ref:`workflow-run-modes.dummy` ignore the
>    :cylc:conf:`[runtime][<namespace>]run mode` setting.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

Set task to succeeded

> ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Reviewer: Feel like this should come under an "examples" section

.. admonition:: Scenario

>    We don't need a task to run, but want to set it to succeed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   We don't need a task to run, but want to set it to succeeded.
```
(I suppose "set it to succeed" could be OK, but to me that sounds kinda like pre-setting it somehow to succeed when it does run - which it won't do).

Broadcast :cylc:conf:`[runtime][<namespace>]run mode` setting the

> value to ``skip``.

Reviewer: Or can use `cylc set --out skip`?

Reviewer 3: This use case needs fleshing out, we're not actually interested in how to set a task to succeeded here.

The use case is along the lines of, I want to turn a task off in my workflow, or in a particular cycle of my workflow. So I don't want to set the output ahead of time (`cylc set --out=succeeded` or skip or whatever) because that would cause downstream triggering (although I could use the `--wait` option...), so I configure the task not to run instead.

Create a Graph Control Task
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. admonition:: Scenario

   We have a large family to large family trigger.

   .. code-block:: cylc

      [task parameters]
          x = 1..N   # Where N is big.
      [scheduling]
          [[graph]]
              R1 = FAMILY:succeed-all => FAMILY2
      [runtime]
         [[FAMILY, FAMILY2]]
         [[task1<x>]]
            inherit = FAMILY
         [[task2<x>]]
            inherit = FAMILY2

   If we increase N, the number of dependencies being tracked
   by the scheduler is N^2.

> Adding a skip mode task between the families:

Reviewer 3: This is duplicating the workflow design guide (which hasn't been updated for skip mode).

Please cover this topic here: https://cylc.github.io/cylc-doc/stable/html/workflow-design-guide/efficiency.html#family-to-family-triggering

Author: Which itself is something of a duplication of https://cylc.github.io/cylc-doc/stable/html/user-guide/writing-workflows/scheduling.html#efficient-inter-family-triggering

How about I put up an issue to merge the two and just put a reference in one place?
